Scrum - Manifesto Workbook
Problems with traditional (Waterfall) development. 


The waterfall is too rigid. It doesn't handle change well ,testing happens too late, customers don't see the product until the end, and mistakes become expensive to fix.Scrum solves this by delivering small working pieces frequently and adapting quickly.
	

Agile Principles
1.Customer satisfaction is the top priority .
	2.Welcome changing requirements.
	3.Deliver working software frequently.
	4.Business people and developers work together daily.
	5.Build projects around motivated people.
	6.Face to face communication is best.
	7.working software is the main measure of progress.
	8.Maintain a sustainable pace.
	9.Continuous attention to technical excellence.
	10.Simplicity is essential.
	11.Self-organizing teams do the best work.
	12.Regularly reflect and improve.
	



Agile Manifesto Statement of Values 
  
We Value Left Column        
Individual and interactions 
	Working product
	Customer collaboration 
	Responding to change
	



Over the Right Column
Processes and tools
	comprehensive documentaion 
	Contract negotiation  
	Following a plan
	

Agile Framework Attributes
Focus on People
	Expect professionalism to be used to produce high quality outcomes.
	Working Software
	Agile aims to deliver high-quality working 
(functioning with needed functionality) software products.
	Flexibility
	Agility: The ability to adjust to changing conditions.
	Customer Involvement
	Customers or User representatives are expected to be involved, give opinions and feedback, and help to prioritize next steps.


	Multi 
disciplinary cooperating teams
	Each Scrum team must have specific skills to successfully deliver the project.  By having each member with a broad but shallow understanding of many topics and a deep understanding of one or two topics (for which they will be considered the expert).  This type of ability/skill-set distribution is called a T-shaped skill set.  Enterprises always look for a T-shaped skill set model when selecting development team members.


	Trust
	Trust is the basic ingredient to be able to deliver the requested quality.


	

Agile Frameworks




1. Scrum 
2. Kanban 
3. Extreme Programming (XP) 
4. Feature Driven Development (FDD) 
5. Crystal 
6. Dynamic System Development Method (DSDM) 7.Rapid Application Development 
7. Adaptive Software Development (ASD) 
8. Disciplined Agile (DA) 
9. Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) 
10. Large-Scale Scrum (LeSS) 
11. Lean Software Development (LSD) 


































Methodology
	Framework
	* Scrum has no exhaustive and formal prescriptions on how to design and plan the work, actions, and behaviors of all players involved in product development against time.
* Scrum is also not a methodology.
	Scrum is a lightweight framework that helps teams and organizations generate value through adaptive solutions. It is ideal for complex product development, and is iterative and incremental.
	



Roles
	In general, a Role is a set of activities, responsibilities, and/or authorities granted to/performed by a person, group or team
	Rituals
	represent actions to be taken or a specific act of work to be performed.


	Artifacts
	Artifacts are documents that report, or documentation of some activity that has been performed or is planned to be performed
	Rules
	Rules define prescribed behavior or a control mechanism that is intended to be followed.